Is it realistic to believe that you can be a friend with God?
If until now you've answered no to that question, please consider this.
The lives of millions of people today prove that friendship with God is possible.
Their lives prove that we can find a peaceful and meaningful life now,
as well as hope for a never-lasting and peaceful future.
If you desire that for yourself and others,
we urge you to listen to this scriptural talk.
We emphasize the need to listen, because many people ignore that important question,
that is, can you be a friend with God?
Why is it that many put such an important question out of their mind?
There are a number of reasons. For example, some believe that God is impersonal or
unknowable, or that He does not exist and that He's not interested in humans.
They are taught that God is a mystery, and that He is cruel, harsh, and demanding.
Many religious leaders claim that God will punish bad people forever in a place of torment.
Do you feel drawn into friendship with a God like that?
Who in their right mind would?
Still other people, after seeing all of the injustice and suffering in the world,
have concluded that God must be dead, or that He never existed at all.
And then there are those who believe that they have done too many bad things in their life to
ever be a friend of God. Do any of those causes for doubt or concern apply to you?
If so, please listen carefully to the following four key points that may help you to see that
friendship with God is truly possible, we will then develop each one.
First, we'll look at how sin separates us from God. Second, we'll look at how God has taken
the initiative to heal the breach and bring obedient humans back into friendship with Him.
Then, we'll examine what we can do to become God's friend in an everlasting way.
And finally, we will consider how friendship with God brings peace now and in the future.
So, for our first point, what is it that separates us from God in a word sin?
Why does sin separate us? Because the true God is holy, he's pure, and his conduct is perfect.
He does not have a trace of sin, he's clean and the highest sense. No human can be holy to that degree,
not even close. To illustrate, consider the words human and imperfect. They go together, don't they?
You cannot fully describe humans without mentioning imperfection. It's just a part of us,
and human history shows this to be sadly and painfully true.
So then, our sins or imperfections create a barrier between us and God.
This separation is described at Isaiah chapter 59 and verse 2 where we are told in part.
Your own errors have separated you from your God. Your sins have made him hide his face from you.
Separated from God, it says, we were born into this state, but God did not create us to be sinful.
Our sins are not his fault. The first humans, Adam and Eve, were created perfect,
but they proved to be ungrateful and selfish, and they rejected God's friendship.
They destroyed their peace with God by sinning against him, and they became his enemies.
Adam then passed sin on to his descendants as well as death. We read about this terrible inheritance
at Romans chapter 5 and verse 12. In this verse, the Apostle Paul summarizes why our inherited
sinful condition leads to death. He wrote, that is why just as through one man sin entered into
the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because they had all sinned.
Death spread to all men. This pandemic of sin has a 100% infection rate and a 100% mortality rate.
No human can escape it. As Paul said, death spread because they had all sinned.
On our own, we cannot correct our sinful state. It's as if we have fallen into a deep pit with
seemingly no way out. But are we left without hope? No. In fact, although God views some people as
his enemies, he treats others as his friends. For example, regarding the man Abraham, the Bible book
of James says in chapter 2 and verse 23, that Abraham put faith in Jehovah, and it was counted to
him as righteousness, and he came to be called Jehovah's Friend. Abraham was as imperfect as we are,
but he came to be called God's Friend. What has God done to make it possible for humans to gain
his favor and blessing? Simply put, our Creator has taken the initiative. He has taken steps to
heal the breach that was caused by sin and to eliminate the separation between us and him.
How has he done this? First, the Holy Scriptures tell us that God desires for us to come to know him,
and to be at peace with him. In fact, he appeals to us to do this. In the Bible book of Acts chapter 17
and verse 27, we are told that God wants us to sincerely seek him, and that if we do, we will find
that he's not far off from each one of us. Next, and very important, God took the initiative to make
this possible by providing the sacrifice of his son Jesus in order to redeem us from sin.
That was an unparalleled act of love. As we now read first John chapter 4 and verse 10,
please think about what it says regarding this matchless act of love on God's part,
and so that we may never forget that God took the initiative to heal the breach, so to speak.
First, John 4, 10 says, the love is in this respect, not that we have loved God,
but that he loved us and sent his son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins.
What did God do? God loved us, it says, and he sent his son. This sacrifice that God provided by
means of his son is called propitiatory because it can atone for our sins, and here is how it can
do so. What Jesus gave in sacrifice for us was equal to what Adam lost for us, that is a perfect
human life. Adam exchanged his perfect life for death by his rebellion against God.
As mentioned earlier, Adam then passed sin onto his descendants, and he placed this on a path
outside of God's friendship. On the other hand, the death of Jesus allowed for a ransom,
or a means to satisfy God's justice so that we could receive back what Adam lost for us.
That undeserved gift from God was given a great cost, clearly our creator wants us to come to know
and to enjoy a beautiful friendship with him. We should be very grateful that God took the necessary
step to close the gap and provide a way for us to become his friend. The next step involves
each of us, what is required of us, humility. We must be humble enough to accept God's gift.
If we are humble, we'll see our need for God's mercy, and we'll then do our part to show
appreciation. The Bible book of Acts chapter 3 in verse 19 tells us that this involves repenting
and turning around. In other words, to receive God's gift, which includes his mercy,
we must adjust our thinking by repenting and then turn around by adjusting our conduct in
course in life wherever necessary. The opportunity to do this is open to all people.
As our creator, God is not partial in his mercy, and in the friendship he offers.
He has kindly put everything in place for us. All we must do is be grateful and humble,
and then take the next step. That step involves accepting Jesus and his teachings.
God requires that we follow the example of his son. How closely must we do so?
At John chapter 14 and verse 6, Jesus explained,
I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. No one.
So then to come into God's friendship, we must follow his son as true Christians.
So far, we have reviewed how sin separated humans from God. Then we consider what God has done
to heal the breach or close the gap so that we can come back into his favor as his friends.
Now let's look even further into what we must do, which brings us to the third key point.
How can a person become God's friend? We invite you to consider what is said at
James chapter 4 and verse 8. If you have a copy of the Bible, we urge you to follow along.
James chapter 4 and verse 8. As we read it, please notice first the invitation,
then the response, and finally what we must do. It reads,
So first what is the invitation? It is draw close to God. That is followed by what response on God's part. He will draw close to you. But for God to do this, what must we do to show that we accept his invitation? We must do this.
We must cleanse and purify ourselves according to his standards. This will take effort.
For example, we must learn about his standards and we must come to appreciate that they are the best for us and then we must be determined to follow them.
Above all, we do this because we want to please God and to be his friend.
So then how can you develop a friendship with God, show initiative, and put forth the effort?
Consider this. If you have a house plant, you know that it doesn't grow on its own. You have to water it regularly and keep it in an environment that helps it to grow. True?
Something similar is true of our friendship with God. We nurture this friendship by reading and studying God's word the Bible.
When we do so, we learn important things about God. For example, we learn that God's name is Jehovah. And as is true of any good friendship, it's important that we use his name.
If we're sincere in our efforts to draw close to him, as we read at James chapter 4 and verse 8, Jehovah will draw close to us.
And he never abandons his true friends. In fact, John 17 verse 3 tells us that coming to know God means everlasting life for us.
What an undeserved kindness and priceless gift for Jehovah's true friends.
So that you too can enjoy a bright future as God's friends, we warmly invite you to accept a free interactive Bible course
offered by Jehovah's Witnesses using the publication enjoy life forever. Here's what it looks like.
Jehovah's Witnesses can help you to get either a printed or an electronic copy.
It begins with the lessons, how can the Bible help you, the Bible gives hope, and can you trust the Bible?
We urge you to learn these things and to worship God in harmony with the truth that is revealed in his word.
So what important points have we considered regarding how a person can become God's friend?
First, get to know God by reading and studying his word.
Jesus said that doing this means everlasting life and then learn about God's name and use it.
Now, we'll list four more things that those who desire to become God's friends must do.
They are imitate God's qualities, reject thinking and actions that offend God,
associate with those who want to be God's friends, and avoid friendship with people who ignore or mock God's standards.
Now, a few things in that list speak for themselves, don't they?
Such as associate with those who want to be God's friend and avoid friendship with people who ignore or mock God's standards.
That makes sense, doesn't it? Think back to our illustration about the house plant.
You must not only water and nurture it, but you must keep it in the right environment, one that helps it to grow.
Likewise, associating with those who also want to be God's friend is the right environment for us.
But what about the requirement to imitate God's qualities?
How can an imperfect people do this?
Well, for a few minutes, we'll look at just two of God's qualities and how we can imitate Him.
And we begin with God's love.
An important way that we can imitate God's love and become his friend is by applying what his son Jesus taught us.
For example, Jesus said, just as you want men to do to you, do the same way to them.
A simple statement, but one that takes effort to apply, true.
Can we do this? Yes.
And a person who desires to be God's friend will put forth the effort needed to do this.
To succeed in imitating God's love, we must try to see people as Jehovah sees them.
We must try to put ourselves in the place of others so that we can understand their needs,
their concerns, and even their pain of heart.
Some may be challenged physically because of injury, disease, or aging.
Others are coping with emotional trials because of depression or anxiety.
Many people face difficulties that we have not experienced.
For instance, a young person may find it hard to understand older people,
and here she will really need to think about what it must be like to be an older person.
If that is true of you, how can you imitate God's love?
One important way is by listening carefully until you understand the other person's feelings.
When you do so, you are in a better position to imitate God's love.
Those who desire to be Jehovah's friends will be moved to imitate his love by acting according
to what others really need.
That brings us to a second and related quality that of kindness.
Anyone who desires to be God's friend must be kind to others.
Here again, we can learn much from what Jesus said and did.
God's son said that the most high is kind toward the unthankful and wicked.
Jesus appreciated this outstanding quality of his heavenly Father,
and he imitated God's kindness.
What helped Jesus to do so?
He treated people in a kind manner by anticipating how his words and actions might affect their feelings.
For example, the Bible tells us that a woman known to be a sinner approached Jesus,
weeping and wetting his feet with her tears.
Jesus discerned that she was repentant, and he knew how heartbroken she would be if he just
dismissed her unkindly. Like his heavenly Father, Jesus looked for the good in her.
We know this because he commended her, then he forgave her.
Following Jesus' example, how can we also imitate God's kindness?
We can do so by being gentle to all people whenever possible.
Kind people discern how to deal with delicate situations.
Kind people avoid hurting the feelings of others.
When we do this, we try to anticipate how our words and actions might affect them.
That is how a true friend of God will treat others.
Well, this review of just a few of Jehovah's many outstanding qualities gives us an idea
of how much we can benefit from reading the Bible, and then applying its many lessons for us.
Yes, friendship with God is possible, and we can imitate his outstanding qualities.
In the following video, please take note of how we can use the Bible to build a friendship with God.
Who has never known her father.
All her life she has been told lies that her father abandoned her.
But deep inside, she feels she knows it's not true.
One day, she receives a letter from her father.
She learns that he is alive, and that unbeknown to her, he had been reaching out to be part of
her life since the day she was born. The daughter learns who her father is.
And eventually, she finds him. They learn about one another and build a strong bond
until they are inseparable friends. The Bible is like a group of letters from our heavenly father.
As we read the Bible, we learn how to talk to God, how he responds,
and the many ways he shows his tender care.
The Bible can help us to do something we may never have thought possible.
Be God's friend.
That friendship starts by learning the name of your heavenly father and new friend,
and God tells us his name. You whose name is Jehovah.
Jehovah, you alone are the most high. Jehovah guarantees that if you draw close to him,
he will draw close to you.
Our loving father openly extends friendship to all who search for him.
Will you accept his invitation to learn more about what the Bible says on this
and many other topics? Go to JW.org.
Future only. Friendship with God brings peace now. You can have a more peaceful and meaningful life
right now by becoming Jehovah's friends. When you become a friend of God, he will listen to your
prayers and extend his mercy to you. And when you sense his forgiveness, you will experience deep
seated joy. Psalm 32, 1 and 2 says in part, happy is the one whose transgression is pardoned,
whose sin is covered. Happy is the man whom Jehovah does not charge with guilt.
What a blessing it is to sense Jehovah's forgiveness. God's forgiveness can free you from the burden
of guilt that you may feel because of past wrongs. This includes wrongs that you may have committed
before you came to know God and became his friend. Is such a thing possible for you? Yes, it is.
As our video pointed out, the Bible teaches us how to pray to God and how God responds to our prayers.
And you can be assured that he will listen to your prayers, including your prayers for his forgiveness
and his help. At Proverbs 1529, we read that Jehovah hears the prayers of the righteous.
Who are the righteous? The righteous are those who strive to live by his requirements.
What a comfort for us to know that we can be God's friend because he sees what we are trying to do
and he listens to us. But there is more. Our friendship with God can also result in peace with other
people. In fact, Jesus urged us to seek such peace with others. He said that we should love even our
enemies and do good to others without hoping for anything back. And then we read at Luke 636 that he
added, continue being merciful just as your father is merciful. Such a good example can touch
the hearts of others and move them to become Jehovah's friends as well. Consider the experience of
Jose, who learned how to love from true friends of God. At the age of 13, Jose was involved in
guerrilla warfare. He was taught to hate the people who were allegedly responsible for the injustices
that he saw all around him. His aim was to eliminate those people. He saw many of his companions fall
in death and Jose became filled with feelings of bitterness and revenge. While making grenades or
bombs, he would ask himself, why is there so much suffering? If there is a God, does he even notice?
Many times, Jose wept. He was depressed and confused. Eventually, Jose came in contact with
the local congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses. At his first congregation meeting, he noticed the
loving atmosphere there. Everyone greeted him in a warm and friendly manner. Later, a discussion on
the subject, why does God permit wickedness, provided answers to the very questions that he had been
asking? As he learned more from the Bible, Jose made changes in his way of life and in his thinking.
He learned to imitate God's love and thereby become his friend. Breaking his ties with his
companions, though, proved to be challenging. Every time he went to the Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's
Witnesses, he was followed. Some former associates even attended a few meetings, so as to understand
what brought about such a great change in Jose. But once they were satisfied that he was not a
danger to them, they left him alone. At age 17, Jose was baptized as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
As God's friend, Jose soon started sharing what he was learning full time. Instead of scheming to
kill people, he could now share a message of love and of hope with them. What a great reward
for choosing to become Jehovah's Friend. Yes, even those who were once enemies can learn to be at
peace with one another and be God's friends. So what have we learned? We have reviewed why friendship
with God is realistic and possible for us. The Bible tells us that since ancient times, God has
called some humans his friends. We also looked at what God has done to heal the breach or close the
gap between us and him. How has he done so? By means of his Son. Through Jesus, Jehovah God
provided the ransom sacrifice that was needed to redeem us from sin. Then we looked at what you
must do to take advantage of God's mercy and become his friend. This includes studying his word
the Bible and then imitating his outstanding qualities. Finally, we considered how you can find a
meaningful life now as well as true peace with others. Jehovah promises that his friends will
receive eternal life in peace. If that is what you yearn for, then please accept our invitation to
study the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses. By doing so, you will learn about an unending future when
anguish of heart is gone forever and an unending future in which God will permanently wipe away
tears from the faces of his friends. That future is not only possible. It is the future that God promises.